# hack-a-thing-2-bias-be-gone

I built a Chrome extension that reads the HTML source code, extracts it, and counts the occurrences of "he" and "she" in the whole page. The idea was to somehow point out the words visibly on the page, but i found that working in the background is MUCH simpler for chrome extensions, and parsing HTML code and then going back and changing the page itself somehow gets really complicated. I had never worked with chrome extensions before, and learned a lot about how they work and also figured out a lot of misconceptions i held about HTML. The DOM structure was a big part of the complications, because I tried to highlight "he" and "she" but found it really difficult to cleanly parse any given DOM that could show up that way. I spent a LOT of time trying to implement https://benfrain.com/building-search-results-and-highlighting-matches-with-regex/ but the data source it uses is very different from a random DOM.

I would like to keep working on it to incorporate some natural language understanding and figure out, for one thing, when appearances of "he" and "she" are actually being used as standalone gender pronouns. For now, i just subtract heCount from sheCount to account for s[he] overlaps. To view this, click on the rainbow extension icon, right click on the popup and choose "Inspect," and go to the console. I will probably need to incorporate language understanding as the HTML is parsed, so that I can append highlight tags (or any other way of flagging gendered language) to the document as it is parsed. I might use the DOMtoString function in getPagesSource as my framework for searching for words. Of course, "he" and "she" are only the very beginning of gendered language, and there is a lot I could do to explore the different ways gender bias (or possibly other bias) shows up in our language. I think that some combination of pointing out gendered language on the page itself and saving the statistics to show on some central analytics dashboard could be a really cool way to explore the biases to which you are exposed online.

The main structure of my code comes from the tutorial at https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11684454/getting-the-source-html-of-the-current-page-from-chrome-extension.
